So the first thing is, I wanna talk about
dependencies like what you're gonna
actually need to do this course.
I wanted to make this course
like the barrier to entry,
to get in this course I wanted
to be really low because
I mean everyone has different machines and
different versions of things.
So I was like, I really want someone to be
able to just like open up a Web IDE and
start developing on this course.
So, really the only thing that you need is
node as long as you have node version 12.
I think you should be good.
I would recommend getting the latest one
because I will be using ESX modules which
are supported in the latest one.
So you can do that but if not,
I think anything over 12 should be fine.
You shouldn't need anything else
to download on your machine.
So if you're on Windows,
make sure you got node if you're on Mac,
make sure you got node, if you're using
CodeSandbox, you should also be good
as long as you're using a latest version
of node there, so should be good there.
There's a lot of things
that we'll be using,
I can list some of those things right now.
So we'll be using Reacts,
Postgres, something called Prisma,
which kinda sits on top of Postgres.
We'll be using next JS
which sits on top of React,
we'll be using some component libraries.
We'll be using verse cell for
hosting Heroku for
our databases, I'm sure there's more.
There's a lot of dependence like
modules and things that we'll be using.
But when it comes to Postgres, you do
not need it installed on your computer,
as we'll be using a local
Postgres hosted on Heroku.
So if you do have it installed,
that's fine.
Use your local installed ULO.
But for people who don't have it
installed or don't wanna deal with it.
I'm not gonna be doing that, we'll be
using a database hosted on Heroku for
free, where we can use for development.
So really the only thing you need
installed as a text editor and
no that's it,
you don't need anything else or
if you're in the browser like CodeSandbox,
you need a browser installed that's it.
This link is gonna be notes for you all.
Because they're gonna be some things
in here that I want you to copy and
paste not really a lot, mostly just like
config files and stuff, so we can kinda
get going and some of the the design
assets that we'll be using in this course.
So I have a link to a notion document
that I made public ,first thing is I was
gonna walk you through kinda the app
that you will be working on.
Again, there are tons of features here.
And we could sit here for the next
10 days and really build this out.
So really depends on where we end up.
But there are some things that
I definitely wanna cover and
there's some things that I'll probably
leave up to you as like follow on.
But at the end of the day,
this is an app that can play music.
So if you look at what we have here.
This is the finished version of it.
I'm calling it Tracks,
that's the name of this app.
As you can see here, it kinda looks like
Spotify, you've ever seen it before,
you can take a look at some of
the design assets that I have here or
where I got the inspiration from.
These are literally screenshots
from Spotify from my account.
So you can see the music that I listen to
and this is what we're gonna be making.
So over here on the left,
we got our navigation and
then we got some playlists at the bottom.
And then once you are on a playlist, like
for instance, I'm gonna play this one,
you can click the play button or
you can click one of the songs and
it will actually play the song.
So this is copyright free, royalty free
music, so totally fine to play this,
took me a long time to find some of the
music and actually see the database to get
a lot of this stuff, so
super thankful that I was able to do that.
Yeah, and that's pretty much it.
You can switch playlists here and
you'll see that it'll change colors in the
playlists, you can click on a song, and
it'll play it,
that was already playing that's why.
And you can pause it, you can go next,
you have like repeat, you have shuffle.
So a lot of different things
in here that's going on and
we'll be making all of this.
So again, this is gonna be from scratch,
so there is no repo to fork or download.
We're gonna do all of
this stuff from nothing.
So I think that's the exciting part and
that's where I said is slightly different
from the courses that I normally do, where
there's normally like some assets already
there, some things you gotta fork and
start with.
I really wanted to like, what is it like?
A lot of people always ask, well,
how do you actually get started?
I remember coming out
of boot camp in 2013.
That was like one of
the biggest things for me is,
how do I get started doing something?
I feel like I can contribute, but
I don't really know how to start.
So I wanted this course to
emphasize on starting and
kinda walk you through
how I think about that.